README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/claws/gestalt.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/claws/gestalt

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/gestalt.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/gestalt

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
    :target: https://github.com/ambv/black

Gestalt
#######

Gestalt is a Python application framework for building distributed systems.
Gestalt is written in Python to run on top of asyncio.

.. note::

    This project is in the early stages of development. Expects lots of
    changes.


Features
========

Gestalt provides a variety of components that assist building asyncio
applications. The main features are:

  - An application runner that simplifies running an asyncio application by
    performing common setup such as creating an event loop, registering signal
    handlers, registering a global exception handler and performing graceful
    shutdown.

  - A Timer component that simplifies creating periodic calls to a function.
    Timers can be created as single-shot, repeat a specified number of times
    or repeat forever.

  - High level TCP and UDP communications endpoints.

  - Support for automatic serialization and compression of message payloads.

  - High level message queuing (i.e. AMQP) components. The Advanced Message
    Queuing Protocol (AMQP) is an open standard protocol specification for
    message passing, queuing, routing, reliability and security. One of the
    most popular implementations of AMQP is RabbitMQ. The Gestalt package
    provides high level consumer and producer components that support automatic
    message serialization and compression of message payloads.


Installation
============

Gestalt is available on PyPI and can be installed using `pip <https://pip.pypa.io>`_.

Install core functionality using the command:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install gestalt

Gestalt uses third party Python packages to obtain support for features such
as serialization, compression and message queuing. To install optional extras
simply specify one or more of them using the extras specifier notation as
shown in the example below which installs all of the available extras:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install gestalt[amq,protobuf,msgpack,avro,brotli,snappy,yaml]

where the available extras are:

  - ``protobuf`` will install support for serializing Google Protocol Buffers structures.
  - ``msgpack`` will install support for serializing Msgpack structures.
  - ``yaml`` will install support for serializing YAML structures.
  - ``avro`` will install support for serializing Apache Avro structures.
  - ``snappy`` will install Snappy compression support.
  - ``brotli`` will install Brotli compression support.
  - ``amq`` will install the AMQP extras (asyncio bindings for RabbitMQ)
  - ``develop`` will install the extras needed to development Gestalt.

Once installed you can begin developing an application using Gestalt.

There are many examples under the ``examples`` directory.

The `API Reference <http://gestalt.readthedocs.io>`_ provides API-level documentation.


Performance Tip
===============

Consider using the high performance `uvloop <https://github.com/MagicStack/uvloop>`_
event loop implementation instead of the default asyncio event loop.

Install the package using:

.. code-block:: console

    (venv) $ pip install uvloop

Then, simply call ``uvloop.install()`` before creating an asyncio event loop
either via the standard ``asyncio.get_event_loop()``, ``asyncio.run()`` or the
``gestalt.runner.run`` function.

Commit message:

add snappy system dep to travis ci file

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/claws/gestalt.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/claws/gestalt

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/gestalt.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/gestalt

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
    :target: https://github.com/ambv/black

Gestalt
#######

Gestalt is a Python application framework for building distributed systems.
Gestalt is written in Python to run on top of asyncio.

.. note::

    This project is in the early stages of development. Expects lots of
    changes.


Features
========

Gestalt provides a variety of components that assist building asyncio
applications. The main features are:

  - An application runner that simplifies running an asyncio application by
    performing common setup such as creating an event loop, registering signal
    handlers, registering a global exception handler and performing graceful
    shutdown.

  - A Timer component that simplifies creating periodic calls to a function.
    Timers can be created as single-shot, repeat a specified number of times
    or repeat forever.

  - High level TCP and UDP communications endpoints.

  - Support for automatic serialization and compression of message payloads.

  - High level message queuing (i.e. AMQP) components. The Advanced Message
    Queuing Protocol (AMQP) is an open standard protocol specification for
    message passing, queuing, routing, reliability and security. One of the
    most popular implementations of AMQP is RabbitMQ. The Gestalt package
    provides high level consumer and producer components that support automatic
    message serialization and compression of message payloads.


Installation
============

Gestalt is available on PyPI and can be installed using `pip <https://pip.pypa.io>`_.

Install core functionality using the command:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install gestalt

Gestalt uses third party Python packages to obtain support for features such
as serialization, compression and message queuing. To install optional extras
simply specify one or more of them using the extras specifier notation as
shown in the example below which installs all of the available extras:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install gestalt[amq,protobuf,msgpack,avro,brotli,snappy,yaml]

where the available extras are:

  - ``protobuf`` will install support for serializing Google Protocol Buffers structures.
  - ``msgpack`` will install support for serializing Msgpack structures.
  - ``yaml`` will install support for serializing YAML structures.
  - ``avro`` will install support for serializing Apache Avro structures.
  - ``snappy`` will install Snappy compression support. The Python snappy package
    is simply a binding to a system library. Therefore you must install that first
    before the Python binding will install successfully. For example, on Debian
    systems you will want ``sudo apt-get install libsnappy-dev``

  - ``brotli`` will install Brotli compression support.
  - ``amq`` will install the AMQP extras (asyncio bindings for RabbitMQ)
  - ``develop`` will install the extras needed to development Gestalt.

Once installed you can begin developing an application using Gestalt.

There are many examples under the ``examples`` directory.

The `API Reference <http://gestalt.readthedocs.io>`_ provides API-level documentation.


Performance Tip
===============

Consider using the high performance `uvloop <https://github.com/MagicStack/uvloop>`_
event loop implementation instead of the default asyncio event loop.

Install the package using:

.. code-block:: console

    (venv) $ pip install uvloop

Then, simply call ``uvloop.install()`` before creating an asyncio event loop
either via the standard ``asyncio.get_event_loop()``, ``asyncio.run()`` or the
``gestalt.runner.run`` function.
